Data visualizations are effective in all three sections of
the proposal from the problem, justification, and solution.
Here are some best practices for weaving data visualizations in your proposal.
First and foremost, keep it simple.
A number would honestly suffice if that's all you need to prove your point.
Do include percentage change over
time if you're looking to highlight trending trajectory over time.
Some examples include year-over-year or YoY, month-over-month,
week-over-week, day-over-day,
and any other time period you're looking to compare against.
Try to have visualization styling match the design language
of the company dependent on the time and resources you have.
This may be fairly obvious,
but visualizations should be visible from 100 percent zoom on presentation mode,
and any unfamiliar abbreviations or definitions,
like three-digit country codes,
should be expanded or clarified.
You generally want to minimize text,
and let the numbers speak for themselves with verbal contexts from you in the background.
Preferably only have one visualization per slide and two at max.
This right here is an example of something that's perfect for
a self-serve dashboard where end-users have time to explore each metric,
but not on the slide deck.
Every visualization you show should carry a point and have a story to tell behind it.
Five visualizations on one slide like
this example would be too interactive to drive each point across.
If you plan to share your slide deck with
your stakeholder's offline for their future reference,
feel free to provide links to visualizations or
the underlying SQL queries in the appendix for their deeper exploration.
Do also point out any data caveats in any assumptions that you've made in your analyses.
Also do remember to allow some time for Q&A at the end of your presentation.
Next, let's jump into an exercise.